---
title : Deploy Nuxt app with Github Actions on your own server
description: This portfolio is bundled with Nuxt and deployed with Github Actions. This project is a use case of how to deploy a Nuxt app with Github Actions and serve it with Nginx and Docker
skills : ["Nuxt.js","Github Action","Docker","Nginx","Bash","DevOps","Sysadmin"]
image : nuxt-github-nginx.png
image_project_list: articles/nuxt-github-nginx.png
article: /articles/nuxt-github
---

In this blog post, we will cover the process deploying a pre-existing Nuxt3 blog on a server using GitHub Actions, Docker, Nginx, and Traefik. 

By following these steps, you'll be able to set up continuous integration and deployment for your Nuxt3 blog,
as well as host your static content on Nginx with the help of Docker and Traefik.

NEED SCHEMA
NEED summary

### Prerequisites

- A Nuxt3 blog project 
- Basic knowledge of Docker, Nginx, and GitHub Actions
- A GitHub account
- A server with Docker and Docker Compose installed
- Domain name and access to DNS settings

I assume that you already have your Nuxt3 blog project and you have already deployed it to GitHub.
If you haven't done it yet, you can go to the [Nuxt3 documentation](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/installation) to learn how to create a Nuxt3 project.


## Configuring GitHub Actions for CI/CD

### What is Github Actions?

GitHub Actions is a feature provided by GitHub that allows you to automate, customize, and execute your software development workflows directly within your GitHub repository. 
With GitHub Actions, you can create and configure workflows that automatically respond to events like pushes, pull requests, and issue creation.

These workflows are made up of a series of tasks called "actions." Actions can be created and shared by the community, or you can write your own custom actions.
And this is why Github Actions is so powerful. 
Workflows are defined using YAML files and can be triggered by various GitHub events.

### Create your Github Actions Workflow

You need to create a new file in the `.github/workflows` directory of your project named `main.yml` with 
the following content:

```yaml
name: Deploy

on: 
  push:
    branches:    
        - main

jobs:
  build-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - name: Set Node.js 16.x
        uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: 16.x
      - name: Install dependencies
        uses: borales/actions-yarn@v4
        with:
          cmd: install
      - name: Install sass
        uses: borales/actions-yarn@v4
        with:
          cmd: add -D sass
      - name: Run generate
        uses: borales/actions-yarn@v4
        with:
          cmd: generate
      - name : Deploy to server
        uses: garygrossgarten/github-action-scp@release
        with:
          local: .output/public
          remote: /srv/config/portfolio/generated
          host: ${{ secrets.HOST }}
          username: ${{ secrets.SSH_USER }}
          privateKey :  ${{ secrets.SSH_KEY }}
```

This workflow will be triggered when you push to the  `main`  branch.

The workflow will run on the latest version of Ubuntu and will perform the following steps:

- Checkout the code from the repository. This action is helpful in order to get the code from the repository and let the workflow use it.
- Install Node.js 16.x
- Install dependencies
- Install sass 
- Generate the static content of the Nuxt3 blog using the `yarn generate` command. 
- Deploy the static content to the server using SSH and SCP. This action will use GitHub secrets to connect to the server and 
copy the static content to the server path `/srv/config/portfolio/generated`. You can use any path you want.

### Create GitHub Secrets 

You need to create two GitHub secrets to connect to the server using SSH and SCP. So go to your GitHub repository and click on `Settings` > `Secrets and variables` > `Actions` and add your secrets:

- `SSH_KEY` : The private key of your SSH key pair.
- `SSH_USER` : The username of your SSH key pair.
- `HOST` : The IP address of your server.

Then push your changes to the `main` branch and wait for the workflow to finish. 

It should take a few minutes to complete the workflow. If everything goes well, you should see a green checkmark next to the commit.

Now, you can go to your server and check if the static content has been deployed successfully under the path `/srv/config/portfolio/generated`.

Okay, now we have the static content of our Nuxt3 blog deployed on the server. But we still need to serve it with Nginx and Traefik ! 

## Configuring Docker, Nginx, and Traefik

### Prerequisites

- A server with Docker and Docker Compose installed
- Domain name and access to DNS settings. You can configure this step with Cloudflare or any other DNS provider.
    In my case, I use Cloudflare and I have already configured my domain name `williamburillon.com` with it in order to point it to my server.

### Configure Traefik

Traefik is a modern, dynamic, and open-source reverse proxy and load balancer designed to simplify the deployment and management of microservices and container-based applications.
It is particularly popular for use with container orchestration platforms like Docker, Kubernetes, and Swarm, 
as it can automatically discover and configure itself based on the services deployed in the environment.

In this section, we will configure Traefik for our servers and I will omit specific details about Traefik configuration. 

You can find more information about Traefik configuration in the [official documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/).

So, to configure Traefik for your server, you need to create a docker-compose file named `traefik.yml` with the following content:

```yaml
version: '3.7'

volumes:
  traefik-certs:

networks:
  frontend: {external: true}

services:
  reverse-proxy:
    image: traefik:v2.5.2
    command:
      - "--accesslog=true"
      - "--log.level=DEBUG"
      - "--api=true"
      - "--api.dashboard=true"
      - "--providers.docker.endpoint=unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
      - "--providers.docker.exposedbydefault=false"
      - "--providers.docker.network=frontend"
      - "--entrypoints.web.address=:80"
      - "--entrypoints.websecure.address=:443"
      - "--certificatesresolvers.cloudflarednschallenge.acme.dnschallenge=true"
      - "--certificatesresolvers.cloudflarednschallenge.acme.dnschallenge.provider=cloudflare"
      - "--certificatesresolvers.cloudflarednschallenge.acme.email=<YOUR_CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL>"
      - "--certificatesresolvers.cloudflarednschallenge.acme.storage=/letsencrypt/acme.json"
    ports:
      - 80:80
      - 443:443
    volumes:
      - traefik-certs:/letsencrypt
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    environment:
      CF_API_EMAIL: <YOUR_CLOUDFLARE_EMAIL>
      CF_API_KEY: <YOUR_CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY>
    networks:
      - frontend
    labels:
      - "traefik.enable=true"
      - "traefik.http.routers.http-catchall.rule=hostregexp(`{host:.+}`)"
      - "traefik.http.routers.http-catchall.entrypoints=web"
      - "traefik.http.routers.http-catchall.middlewares=redirect-to-https@docker"
      - "traefik.http.middlewares.redirect-to-https.redirectscheme.scheme=https"
      - "traefik.http.routers.api.tls.certresolver=cloudflarednschallenge"
      - "traefik.http.routers.api.rule=Host(`traefik.williamburillon.com`)"
      - "traefik.http.routers.api.entrypoints=websecure"
      - "traefik.http.routers.api.service=api@internal"
      - "traefik.http.services.dummy-svc.loadbalancer.server.port=9999"
      - "traefik.http.middlewares.traefik-dashboard-auth.basicauth.users=<YOUR_DEFINED_USERNAME>:<YOUR_DEFINED_PASSWORD>"
      - "traefik.http.routers.api.middlewares=traefik-dashboard-auth"
```

Then, run the following command to start Traefik:

```bash
docker-compose -f traefik.yml up -d
```

This configuration will start Traefik and it will listen on port 80 and 443. So, each time your sever receives a request on port 80 or 443, it will forward the request to Traefik.
Then, Traefik will route the request to the appropriate service. We will see how to configure Traefik to route the request to our Nuxt3 blog in the next section.

_N.B.: You can now access the Traefik dashboard at `https://traefik.williamburillon.com` and you should see the dashboard._

### Configure Nginx

Nginx (pronounced "engine-x") is a versatile, high-performance, open-source web server, reverse proxy server, and load balancer.
It was first released in 2004 by Igor Sysoev, and it has gained popularity due to its performance, stability, and low resource consumption compared to other web servers like Apache.

In our case, we will use Nginx in order to serve our static content generated by Nuxt3 under the path `/srv/config/portfolio/generated`.

So, to configure Nginx for our server, we need to create a docker-compose file named `nginx.yml` under the path `/srv/config/portfolio`  with the following content:

```yaml
version: "3.4"
networks:
  frontend:
    external: true
services:
  nginx:
    image: nginx:latest
    restart: always
    volumes:
      - ./generated:/usr/share/nginx/html/
    labels:
      - "traefik.enable=true"
      - "traefik.http.routers.portfolio.entrypoints=websecure"
      - "traefik.http.routers.portfolio.rule=Host(`williamburillon.com`)"
      - "traefik.http.routers.portfolio.tls.certresolver=cloudflarednschallenge"
      - "traefik.http.services.portfolio.loadbalancer.server.port=80"


    networks: [frontend]
```

Then, run the following command to start Nginx:

```bash
docker-compose -f nginx.yml up -d
```

With this configuration, we set up Nginx to serve our static content generated by Nuxt3 under the path `/srv/config/portfolio/generated` (with the volume `./generated:/usr/share/nginx/html/`).

We enable Traefik for this service and we configure Traefik to route the request to the appropriate service.

We defined a router named `portfolio` and we configured it to listen on port 443. 
We also defined a rule to route the request to the service `portfolio` (with the label `traefik.http.routers.portfolio.rule=Host(williamburillon.com)`).

So, each time Traefik receives a request on port 443 with the host `williamburillon.com`, it will route the request to the service `portfolio` (with the label `traefik.http.services.portfolio.loadbalancer.server.port=80`).



## Well Done 🎉 


You can now access your Nuxt3 blog at `https://williamburillon.com` and you should see the blog.

To conclude, we have explored how to deploy a pre-existing Nuxt3 blog using GitHub Actions for CI/CD, along with Docker, Nginx, and Traefik for hosting and managing static content.
By following these steps, you can set up a robust and automated deployment pipeline for your own Nuxt3 blog, ensuring that your content is always up-to-date and easily accessible to your audience.

If you want to deploy your Nuxt 3 app and you don't have server yet or you don't want to manage your server, you can use [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) to deploy your app in a few minutes.

If you have any question concerning the process or if you have any suggestion, feel free to contact me by email !